# Insurance-Claim-Prediction
# Problem Statement

CarIns is a startup that provides insurance for cars. 
It is one of the best car insurance brands known for the highest claim 
settlement ratio. It was launched back in Oct 2020 and acquired its 
initial policyholders by providing a hassle-free claim process, 
instant policy issuance, and claim settlements at minimum coverages.




As it's a fast growing startup, the company would like to optimize the 
cost of the insurance by identifying the policyholders who are more 
likely to claim in the next 6 months. 



Now the company would like to use Data Science to identify the policyholders
whose chances of filing a claim are high in the next 6 months. 
The company challenges the Data Science community to build a high-performance
algorithm to predict if the policyholder will file a claim in the next 6 months
or not based on the set of car and policy features.

# Data Dictionary

1. policy_id -Unique identifier of the policyholder

2. policy_tenure -Time period of the policy

3. age_of_car -Normalized age of the car in years

4. age_of_policyholder- Normalized age of policyholder in years

5. area_cluster- Area cluster of the policyholder

6. population density - Population density of the city (Policyholder City)

7. make - Encoded Manufacturer/company of the car

8. segment- Segment of the car (A/ B1/ B2/ C1/ C2)

9. model- Encoded name of the car

10. fuel_type - Type of fuel used by the car

11. max_torque- Maximum Torque generated by the car (Nm@rpm)

12. max_power- Maximum Power generated by the car (bhp@rpm)

13. engine_type- Type of engine used in the car

14. airbags- Number of airbags installed in the car

15. is_esc- Boolean flag indicating whether Electronic Stability Control (ESC) is present in the car or not.

16. is_adjustable_steering- Boolean flag indicating whether the steering wheel of the car is adjustable or not.

17. is_tpms- Boolean flag indicating whether Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) is present in the car or not.

18. is_parking_sensors- Boolean flag indicating whether parking sensors are present in the car or not.

19. is_parking_camera- Boolean flag indicating whether the parking camera is present in the car or not.

20. rear_brakes_type- Type of brakes used in the rear of the car

21. displacement- Engine displacement of the car (cc)

22. cylinder- Number of cylinders present in the engine of the car

23. transmission_type- Transmission type of the car

24. gear_box- Number of gears in the car

25. steering_type- Type of the power steering present in the car

26. turning_radius- The space a vehicle needs to make a certain turn (Meters)

27. length- Length of the car (Millimetre)

28. width- Width of the car (Millimetre)

29. height- Height of the car (Millimetre)

30. gross_weight- The maximum allowable weight of the fully-loaded car, including passengers, cargo and equipment (Kg)

31. is_front_fog_lights- Boolean flag indicating whether front fog lights are available in the car or not.

32. is_rear_window_wiper- Boolean flag indicating whether the rear window wiper is available in the car or not.

33. is_rear_window_washer- Boolean flag indicating whether the rear window washer is available in the car or not.

34. is_rear_window_defogger- Boolean flag indicating whether rear window defogger is available in the car or not.

35. is_brake_assist- Boolean flag indicating whether the brake assistance feature is available in the car or not.

36. is_power_door_lock-  Boolean flag indicating whether a power door lock is available in the car or not.

37. is_central_locking- Boolean flag indicating whether the central locking feature is available in the car or not.

38. is_power_steering- Boolean flag indicating whether power steering is available in the car or not.

39. is_driver_seat_height_adjustable- Boolean flag indicating whether the height of the driver seat is adjustable or not.

40. is_day_night_rear_view_mirror- Boolean flag indicating whether day & night rearview mirror is present in the car or not.

41. is_ecw-  Boolean flag indicating whether Engine Check Warning (ECW) is available in the car or not.

42. is_speed_alert- Boolean flag indicating whether the speed alert system is available in the car or not.

43. ncap_rating- Safety rating given by NCAP (out of 5)

44. is_claim- Outcome: Boolean flag indicating whether the policyholder file a claim in the next 6 months or not.


# Target variable-

is_claim -- Outcome: Boolean flag indicating whether the policyholder file a claim in the next 6 months or not


